Alright in this video
we're gonna get set up with Next.js.
If you've never heard of it before,
Next.js is a react framework,
for building websites and web applications,
and it makes life so much easier.
So it does a couple things
that are much needed and fairly difficult
when you don't use your framework
and the first one is,
it does all of the tooling for you.
So, all of your webpack compiling,
and code splitting and all of that stuff,
it will do that for you under the hood.
So all you have to do is type next,
and it will do it sort of,
behind the scenes for you.
You can actually expose the webpack config
and the babel config for you,
and in fact we do that.
If you open up the package.json,
you'll see that I do give my own babel config here,
and basically it just takes their own babel config,
which is next/babel,
and then adds styled-components config on top of that.
I'll talk about why we do that in,
in just a second when we hit
the style components video.
So it does all the tooling for you;
it also does something really important,
which is server side rendering.
So if you care about instant loading,
or if you care about SEO,
or you care about pre-loading certain pages,
server-side rendering
is definitely something that you need.
So here I've got an example open here,
and if I just go ahead
and view source on this page,
I'll be able to search for vapor max;
there we go.
You see that the title is Vapormax,
and I'm sure we can find an image,
has it all to vapormax,
and an H2 viewing vapormax.
You can see that all of these things
are being server rendered,
because it allows me to view source;
that's really important.
It provides this thing called get initial props,
which is going to allow you to
fetch data on the server,
and it's always hard
with asynchronous data on the server because,
it's never very clear when to actually,
when the data fetching is done,
and when you can send the response,
from the server back to the client and resolve the page.
So they introduced this new life cycle method,
in react called get initial props,
which allows us to wait on that data to resolve
before the page is actually shipped out to the browser,
and then finally it does routing for you,
and I particularly really like this because,
there is no routing; you just have to simply make pages.
So let's actually start with that.
First thing we wanna do,
is go over to our terminal here,
and make sure you're in the frontend directory,
and in a last video we did an npm install.
If you haven't done that, go ahead and do it.
And then, if we crack open the package.json
for out frontend here,
and take a look at the script set we have,
you'll see that the dev command
is what we're looking for,
and that will just run the command next
on port 7777.
So if you have something running on that port,
or if you want to run on a separate port,
you could just change that value right there.
And then we simply just need to npm run dev;
that's gonna kick up our next application.
It's going to say ready on local host,
and if I go to that in my browser.
You refresh; it's gonna give us a 404
'cause we haven't created anything.
Now let's go back and look
at the folders that we've got here,
and let's actually take
just a quick look here.
We've got a components folder
which has nothing in it.
Well it's got some styles; we'll go into that,
but there are none of the components written for us yet.
And then there is a pages folder,
which is also going to be really important.
And the way that this works,
is that every single page
that you wanna visit,
like item page,
or the items page,
or the sell page,
or the orders page.
All of these different pages that we have here,
those are going to be .JS files.
This is very much like php,
where you simply just create a .php file,
and you automatically have that page available to you.
That works exactly the same way in here.
So all of our top level pages will go in here,
we're gonna create a new file,
and we're going to--
Let's just call that index.JS as our first one,
and in here we could just make a react component,
so we'll just import react from react,
and then we'll make
a class home extends react.component,
and let's just give ourselves a render,
return a paragraph tag that says hey,
and then export default home.
Okay, and now if we go back here,
and be able to refresh that page,
you'll see that it says hey, right?
This is our main component.
Also, in here it's likely
that we actually don't need a full blown react component.
We'll go more into that when we use
some high order components to fetch the data,
but it's likely that we just need
a stateless functional component,
so let's change that up to,
const home is equal to,
then we have our props,
and we're just going to return
a paragraph tag that says hey.
Actually, let's return a div.
Inside of that, put a paragraph tag that says hey,
and then we'll remove this one right here,
see it gives us the--
Also we have this hot reloading;
you can see it immediately.
it'll say, "Hey!"
"You've got the definition home twice."
Let's get rid of that,
so we can get rid of that.
Good, we also don't even need
to import react in here,
'cause next JS will take care of
actually importing it for us in that one,
and now we've got it up and running.
Similarly, if we want to create a second page;
let's call that sell.JS.
What I like to do is just copy
everything from index into sell,
go ahead and rename that,
and we'll just say sell.
Then if we go to /sell,
and then it's rendered out, look at that!
We don't have to handle any sort of routing config,
or setting it up, or anything like that.
We simply just create pages in our pages directory,
and they start to show up inside of the sell.
Now, Next.js also provides
a whole bunch of stuff for linking
and moving between pages.
They also have some C-S-S stuff;
we'll talk all about that.
They have custom app and document--
That's in the next video,
but for right now let's go ahead,
and do the linking between the two,
because we could just go on the home page here,
and give our selves an anchor link,
where it goes to /sell,
and we say sell,
and we'll go home to the home page,
and you click on it and it will work...
But this is a react application,
and we wanna use HTML5 pushstate,
in order to route from one page to another
without having to refresh the page,
and that's gonna be really important,
when we have data in our cache.
Things like:
we are logged in,
or if the cart is open or closed,
or any of that data needs to stay in the cache,
so if we were to refresh the page,
we would lose all that,
and have to go back to the server to get it.
So what we use, is we use the link.
So we say import the link from--
Next exports them in;
all in their own packages.
So, next/link and then what you do is,
you take the link out,
and you wrap that in a link tag,
you put the actual anchor link inside of it,
but then you put the hreft or h-ref;
people always give me a hard time for saying hreft,
so I'm sorry if I'm the only person
in the world that says that.
But we have the link tag,
you give it an h-ref,
and you link it to where you want it to go.
And then you just put
a regular anchor link inside of that,
and that's going to transform it
into a anchor link on the page.
So let's go over here,
and if we were to inspect it,
you'll see that it's just a regular anchor link,
but it has been bound to HTML5 pushstate,
and I can go ahead and click it immediately
and it will go over to that--
Same thing, I can go to the sell page,
and put in a link back to home.
And then we'll import link from next link.
Go home, sell, home, sell, home, sell, home, sell;
and we're never actually refreshing the page,
to go in between there.
Obviously, we're gonna re-factor this out into nav.
But that is the basics of using Next.js,
and then any other==
Anything that is not a page,
anything that is a reusable will go into component,
and the reality is that our pages
are going to be fairly light
and almost all of the logic
and heavy duty lifting
is gonna go in our components folder.
So in the next video what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna look at
how do we make a reusable page component,
and then how do we also do a custom document,
so I'll see you in the next video.